# Rocket Singh - Salesman of the Year

* Opening scene, friends pass from college, so they are partying. One of the Harpreet's best friends was trying to make Harpreet to give KAT exam for Harpreet's own good as he didn't score well. But this pissed off Harpreet and he says "Tu itna negative kyun hai yaar." and one or two abuses. But they both still did not have any bad feelings for the each other and started dancing again.
* Harpreet lives with his Dada Ji and they have a very friendly bond. Harpreet's language is respectful towards his Dada Ji but they both pull each other's leg now and then.
* In the office of AYS, the salesmen and saleswomen were very friendly among each other.
* They talked to the receptionist in somewhat inappropriate manner. She also points out that the salesman talk to client very repecfully and sweetly before purchase, but once a purchase is made, they don't even care about their clients regarding any problems that they face.
* Once they hire him as a sales trainee, his boss was talking to him in such way one would talk to a person whom they consider to be of zero worth.
* The pantry keeper was adressed by everone as "Chhote Lal" or "Cuplate" etc. but Harpreet called him "Mishra Ji". This made the keeper very happy.
* The boss takes him on field visit, and the boss pointed out the mistakes Harpreet was making in somewhat irritated manner.
* There the boss wanted to gain information from the gatekeeper, so his tone was very respectful and he addressed him as Panday Ji and even gave him a cigarette from his own pack. After gaining the info, he gave him the whole pack just so that he would be helpful in future also.
* There boss was very friendly with the head of client company. In this friendly tone, he manipulated the client because he had already gained information about the likes and dislikes of the client. He falsely mentions that one of the client's employee whom the head disliked was making decisions outside his department. He tried to be very innocent while saying this so that he sounded genuine.
* The boss was calling Harpreet "fachcha". 
* He went and put a complaint against one of the clients regarding corruption. This pissed of his boss and the head boss and they abused him and disrespected him as they had good relations with the company.
* The next day, the salesmen made fun of him as he was scolded by boss. They all were laughing. They went into meeting and due to Harpreet their targets were doubled, so they were angry with him and gave him death threats.
* The head boss insults him a lot in front of the client whom he had filed a complaint against. He makes him say sorry very rudely. He calls him a zero.
* Then he tries to build his own company. He tries to get the receptionist into his company as he saw she was also not happy. She says "Akal ghaas charne gayi hai kya?" She thinks he is mad and speaks very angrily.
* They approach the pantry keeper in a very polite manner to become their partner as he is very great at assembling PCs. The keeper remembers that Harpreet was very polite with him even when he was just worth a pantry keeper, so he becomes very emotional due to respect as he was used to disrespect at the company.
* When the boss catches them and he threatens them that he will tell the company owner, the pantry keeper, Mishra Ji, comes forward, and as he is confident on being a company owner, even though it is small company but he was respected there, he threatens the boss to tell all of the boss's secrets to the company owner.
* So, the boss has to submit to them and joins their new company.
* The owner of the old company is very angry with his employees as their sales were being taken by the new company. He was very rude to his employees.
* The owner Puri when talking to CEO of Rocket Sales Corp. on phone, was very jolly in beginning. He was praising him. He wanted to buy his company. So he gets serious and pitches his idea. He sort of shows the Rocket down. When Harpreet says that he will buy his company, Puri becomes angry and says rudely "Tu meri company khareedega!"
* When he buys the company later because he had found out they were cheating him, he makes fun of him in a disrespectful way.
* The salesmen from AYS who went to the clients of Rocket Corp. were not happy with them and missed Harpreet and rest because of there manner of speaking and body language. They were very persuasive and fake.
* Soon Puri realised that the company was different and he was wrong. So he goes to Harpreet again and pushes him a few times. He asks "Kya hai tujhme jisse tu sabko bewakoof banata hai." Puri thinks that he will lure him into his company by giving him a big post. He was still very disrespectful and was trying to buy him. Obviously he didn't take the offer. Puri again calls him a zero. But he gives him the company back only because he wanted to defeat him in competition and take revenge.
